In the last video we gave a recipe at St..
Now our next goal is to add the form so that we can create new recipes.
We'll start by just creating the form and putting it on the screen.
I'll create a new file for the recipe input.
Now start with the boiler plate of my recipe and put by importing react and creating the class as usual.
Next we'll create a constructor and inside this component we need to keep state about our our form that
we're going to create.
So the state will want is the title of the recipe.
The instructions for the recipe.
An array of ingredients that can change and an image for the recipe.
Now the fact that the list of ingredients can change we can add more than one ingredient introduce a
little bit of complication so we'll see how we'll handle that.
Now let's implement render
So far I've structured all the values from my state.
Now all iterate over the ingredients array and create a an input for each ingredient.
So that's the line for our ingredient map.
We'll fill in more as we go.
Also I'm going to use a couple of classes that will define just a minute.
So I add those to my div
and for any list it's important to remember that we need a key to distinguish the elements.
Although it looks like anything a much better job with spelling.
So we fix that.
Now let's return the rest of our GSX.
I'll copy what I've got and talk about each piece
OK.
Let's talk about this GSX or turn.
First of all I've got a container for the whole form and we've got a class that will help style form.
Next up is the form itself and we got an on Samit method that we need to implement here.
For now I'll just comment this out or rather had a dummy method that will fill in later.
Next we've got a closed button and I want an enclosed method to be passed in as a prop.
We'll discuss this a little more later but for now let's just make a default method so this works.
And the last step would be to use that anclote method from prop's
OK.
Now my recipe input component takes in on Close method as a prop and will provide a default prompt.
We'll talk more about that when we get to the implementation.
But for now we'll keep moving on.
Next we got an input for our title and this one is a little more straightforward.
So let's implement this handle change method because it's something we've already seen.
Remember the handle change will get a browser or event as a parameter so that there also this method
will use that state.
So we want to bind it to this.
We'll do that in the constructor.
Now this is the case where handle change is going to be used by multiple inputs.
It would be pretty annoying to have to make a separate handle change for each input so we'll use that
trick to use either target that name as our key
and that's it for handle change.
Let's keep going with the render method.
Now we've got a textarea for the instructions and this is pretty much the same as the input that we've
seen.
We still want to set the value for our instructions and we still want an on change here.
So very similar to the input.
After that we're rendering our list of ingredients and we'll talk in a minute about how that's going
to change.
Here's a button for adding an input for a new ingredient so we can add as many ingredients as we want.
And lastly here is an input for our image your l.
So this is pretty much the same as the title.
It's got a value for that image string.
And then it's got in on change method.
Last up we've got a button for summit.
Now it's at R-CA SS
and the last step is just to throw this recipe input into our app and make sure it shows up
ok.
Hopefully something renders.
And we got our form to render it looks like we're missing a few more styles so let's go add those in
OK.
This looks like our issue.
I think the problem is we forgot to import or C Ss.
Now let's take a look.
All right.
That looks much better.
We've got our form going now.
And now let's set it up so that this plus button adds more green input boxes for all the ingredients
I want to add
OK.
Let's take a look at the GSX for that plus button.
So this plus button has an on click method and also it's important that it's type button type cement.
So when you click on that plus handle new ingredient is invoked.
Let's implement that method.
I'll start by adding it into my constructor just so I don't forget
next why have the method
and what I want to do here.
Well I want to make my ingredients array in my state grow by 1 so that we show more than one input and
I'll do that by spreading out the current ingredients array and adding an empty space for the new ingredient
and that's all our plus button should work now and add an extra input for us.
Let's take a look at that.
GSX
So there's one thing I want to add I forgot to add the label here.
So now will render a one and then a two and three for however many inputs that we have.
So we just have a count of our ingredients.
We also want to handle change for the ingredient.
Remember before we just added an empty method here.
So let's implement that now.
I'll call the method handle change ingredient or I g.
And the key for this handle change method is that we need to figure out which element in the array that
we're updating.
And I'll do that by using this name.
So depending on which name you're changing we have the ID of that element in the array so we can use
that to modify the appropriate position in the array.
First I'll add my bind in the constructor.
Now the first thing I want to do is figure out the index that I'm on so I'll get that through that target
that name.
Remember the format of the name of each input its ingredients a dash and then our index.
So I'm splitting the string on the dash and then getting the second element in the array which will
be the index and I'm casting that to a number so that it is treated as an integer rather than as a string.
Now I want to map over my ingredients array inside of state and update the appropriate element in Mirei.
So if I if the index that I'm currently on is equal to the index that I'm looking for I want to return
the new value from the target value.
Otherwise I'll just return the same value that I've already had.
I Engy.
Now we just set state
OK let's test all this out.
You can see we've got our number here.
Let's add a period after two.
I'll do that.
And now we should be able to type in this input box and see some changes.
That looks good.
We should also be able to hit that plus button and get a new input box that works too.
All right so now we're at the point where it looks like our form is working in isolation by itself.
But now we need to hook it up so that it handles submit and that it can appear and go away.
So we'll do that in the next video.